# Development-Project

## Introduction
This project involves the design and development of a functional and novel information system based on a provided scenario, to be completed in your selected project groups. You are expected to select a relevant software development methodology to aid the management of the project as a whole, as well as to facilitate a number of systems analysis and design activities and the implementation of the system itself.

## Project Breakdown
You are expected to design and develop the proposed system outlined in the available case study. The case study has sufficient scope to permit your group to design and develop a wide range of systems. You are expected to produce one functional prototype in JavaScript using the React and React-admin frameworks, and with PocketBase as a backend. The final code should be suitably commented and appropriately structured. Additional marks will be awarded to groups who enhance their applications to include extra, appropriate functionality (but note, NB, failure to complete the basic requirements will result in heavy penalties, even if there are many bells and whistles).

The project is conducted in two phases, in the first phase, you are expected to design a system and produce a complete business requirements document, along with suitable UML diagrams (at least a class diagram, an activity diagram, and suitable use-case diagrams), and wire-frames for the described system. In this first phase, you will also produce a selection of SQL DDL statements by way of an exercise to mimic the database that you will use in phase two. Knowledge of the design of the BRD is expected to be brought forward from Organisational Informatics 318, which is a prerequisite to this module. Note that use of any particular methodology for BRD construction, and any particular software (eg, Visual Paradigm) is strictly optional. Groups should, however, design the system to confirm to Material Design 2 and the MUI design library.

Following the design phase, you are expected to develop a fully functioning prototype system using the frameworks and tools noted in this section. The implementation should follow the design as closely as possible, but groups are permitted documented deviations where the design becomes infeasible due to constraints posed by the development tools and timeframe. At the end of the project implementation, you will be expected to demonstrate your application in a class session where evaluators will see your functioning application and a grade based on the presentation will be awarded. Your application should include suitable demonstration data to allow the presentation to flow sufficiently well. 

## Case Study
A small local college, Cape College1, is embarking on an ambitious project to moderise their student administration. To this end, they have set out to build a new students administration system using modern web technologies and design methodologies. In order to get this project underway, Cape College has approached your company2 to build the first phases of the new system. This system should be designed and built to allow the College to manage their student list (with information about each student), and their course catalogue (with information about each course) as well as capture marks for each student/ course/period combination. To this end, you should capture information that is relevant to each student profile as well as information regarding each course. You may choose to capture only one mark per student/course/period combination, or allow for a more sophisticated collection of marks per your groups ambition. In addition to permitting this information to be captured on an administrator portal, you should also design a student view to allow students to see the courses they are registered for, and their marks for each course. Beyond this, the Cape College has ambitions of expanding the system beyond these capabilities into a large number of different areas. They do not yet have any conceptualisation of how these areas will work, and so it it left to you to choose which and how to implement them. You should design and implement at least one of these, but may choose to add additional options if you desire.
The additional modules include:
• a way of potential students to apply to the college;
• a way of students registering for their modules at the start of the academic year;
• a way of managing student accounts;
• a way of managing student bursaries.
In addition to the above list, the Cape College would like to assure you that if your system scores well, that you may
also choose (in additional to at least one of the above) to implement one or more features that you have imagined to be
useful.
